StepMania supports a number of play modes, normally selectable after you pick your profile and style.

The name before the slash is what it's referred to in fallback, the name after the slash is the common name.

== Normal ==
Your regular play mode, normally with 3 stages.

Plus an additional EXTRA STAGE if:
* Extra Stage is enabled in the options.
* the player achieves the theme's requirements to unlock the extra stage. In the default theme an AA on the final stage is required, but themes can choose to make this easier or harder.

Plus a Special Stage (More commonly known as Encore Extra Stage or One More Extra Stage) if:
* the player passes the Extra Stage.
* the player achieves the theme's requirements to unlock the Special Stage. Usually this is an AA on the Extra Stage.

When Event Mode is enabled, stages are unlimited and named Event Stage (in some themes, this is renamed EXTRA STAGE). You are always taken back to the music select after song results, so there is no total results. Extra and Special stage are not accessible.

Some themes uses this default mode and don't be changed, and some themes use different scoring systems (as ITG, EXTREME, Supernova2, Money Score, Etc.).

Note for players: the Dance Points (or DP) is showned on some themes as EX-SCORE.

Note for themers: some themes show ScreenEvaluationStage (Results on actual stage) regards if any player passes or fails the song, and, when Event Mode is disabled, if the player passes FINAL STAGE, EXTRA STAGE or ENCORE EXTRA (or fail the song in themes as DDR A), the last result is showned and changes to ScreenEvaluationSummary (TOTAL RESULTS), this last can be configurated to support failed songs due to ZeroDivitionError during a count.

=== Evaluation ===
* NO PLAY: Song/course not played
* FAILED: Fail the song/course
* ASSIST CLEAR: Clear the song/course using NO HOLDS/REMOVE options
* CLEAR: Clear the song/course without using NO HOLDS/REMOVE options
* HARD CLEAR: Clear the song/course using PRESSURE/SUDDENDEATH/BATTERY/4 LIVES/RISKY options
* FULL COMBO: Clear the song/course with FULL COMBO
* ALL W1: Clear the song/course with ''W1-only'' judges (marked as ''Fantastic'' on default themes of the 5.x branch) and displays the maximum score.

Grades can be applied (exc. in NO PLAY).

== Rave / Battle ==
Battle against another player or a CPU. Only SINGLE charts are used. A gauge at the top determines who is winning or losing, and a gauge at the bottom fills up as you hit notes. When the gauge is full an attack modifier is temporarily applied to the opposite player. A draw can be happenned.
The gauge fills up to level 3 and then restarts at 0. Attacks can be defined per "character" which different character have different attack, defined in `Characters\[Character Name Here]\character.ini`. Some themes disables access to some or all OPTIONS, and LIFE GAUGE option is disabled.

== Courses ==
=== Nonstop ===
Course mode. Pick a course to play a series of songs in order. It reads from .crs files in the Courses folder, but also has auto generated randomized ones from your song groups (examples of theses courses are CLASS grades). Some themes disables access to some or all OPTIONS, LIFE GAUGE or difficulties.

'''Note for themers''': During this mode, you stay in ScreenGameplay until the course ends (or fails) and then you're taken to ScreenEvaluationNormal.

=== Oni / Challenge ===
The same as Nonstop, but the LIFE GAUGE is set to 4 LIVES.

=== Endless ===
The same as Nonstop, but play songs until you fail.