# About

In StepMania 5, `.sm` files have been superseded by [.ssc](file-formats/ssc) files, which are similar in format but contain additional tags and allow newer features.  New charts created with StepMania 5 will be exported to the `.ssc` format, though the program still supports reading the `.sm` format.


# `.sm` files
A `.sm` file is primarily composed of two major sections: the **header tags**, and the **chart data**.

##Header Tags
The header tags contain information that should be shared between all charts, such as `#TITLE:` and `#ARTIST:`.  Most header tags follow the format `#TAG:VALUE;`, though some tags have their own format.

### \#TITLE
Sets the primary title of the song.

### \#SUBTITLE
Sets the subtitle of the song.

### \#ARTIST
Sets the artist of the song.

### \#TITLETRANSLIT
Sets the transliterated primary title of the song, which is used when `ShowNativeLanguage=0`.

### \#SUBTITLETRANSLIT
Sets the transliterated subtitle of the song, which is used when `ShowNativeLanguage=0`.

### \#ARTISTTRANSLIT
Sets the transliterated artist of the song, which is used when `ShowNativeLanguage=0`.

### \#GENRE
Sets the genre of the song.

### \#CREDIT
Defines the simfile's origin (author or pack/mix).

### \#BANNER
Sets the path to the banner image for the song. Banner images are typically rectangular, with common sizes being 256x80 (DDR), 418x164 (ITG), and 512x160 (DDR doubleres).

### \#BACKGROUND
Sets the path to the background image for the song. Background images are typically 640x480 or greater in resolution.

### \#LYRICSPATH
Sets the path to the lyrics file (`.lrc`) to use.

### \#CDTITLE
Sets the path to the CD Title, a small image meant to show the origin of the song. The recommended size is around 64x48.

### \#MUSIC
Sets the path to the music file for this song.

### \#OFFSET
Sets the offset between the beginning of the song and the start of the note data.

### \#BPMS
Sets the BPMs for this song. BPMS are defined in the format `Beat=BPM`, with each value separated by a comma.

### \#STOPS
Sets the stops for this song. Stops are defined in the format `Beat=Seconds`, with each value separated by a comma.

### \#SAMPLESTART
Sets the start time of the song sample used on ScreenSelectMusic.

### \#SAMPLELENGTH
Sets the length of the song sample used on ScreenSelectMusic.

### \#DISPLAYBPM
This can be used to override the BPM shown on ScreenSelectMusic. This tag supports three types of values:

* A number by itself (e.g. `#DISPLAYBPM:180;`) will show a static BPM.
* Two numbers in a range (e.g. `#DISPLAYBPM:90-270;`) will show a BPM that changes between two values.
* An asterisk (`#DISPLAYBPM:*;`) will show a BPM that randomly changes.

### \#SELECTABLE
Determines if the song is selectable under normal conditions. Valid values are `YES` and `NO`.

### \#BGCHANGES
Defines the background changes for this song. The format for each change is as follows: `Beat=BGAnim=?float=?int=?int=?int`.

### \#FGCHANGES
Defines the foreground changes for this song. Format is the same as `#BGCHANGES`.

## Chart Tags
The .sm format only contains a single tag for a chart, unlike the (later) .ssc format.

### \#NOTES
The Notes tag contains the following information:

* Chart type (e.g. `dance-single`)
* Description/author
* Difficulty (one of `Beginner`, `Easy`, `Medium`, `Hard`, `Challenge`, `Edit`)
* Numerical meter
* Groove radar values, generated by the program
* and finally, the note data itself.

The first five values are postfixed with a colon. Groove radar values are separated with commas.

Note data itself is a bit more complex; there's one character for every possible playable column in a chart type. Note types (e.g. 4th, 8th, etc.) are determined by how many rows exist before the comma (which separates measures).

### Note Values
These are the standard note values:

* `0` – No note
* `1` – Normal note
* `2` – Hold head
* `3` – Hold/Roll tail
* `4` – Roll head
* `M` – Mine

Later versions of StepMania accept other note values which may not work in older versions:

* `K` – Automatic keysound
* `L` – Lift note
* `F` – Fake note

### Non-Standard Tags
You might run into some .sm files with some non-standard tags. Though these aren't supported by StepMania, they're (maybe) good to know.

### \#MENUCOLOR
Defines the color of the song on ScreenSelectMusic. Origin is StepMania 3.9 Plus?